Project 1: A Night at the Movies

by Radhika Patel

Artist’s Statement:
For my project, I chose the movie Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse. To be more precise, I chose my favorite scene from it  in which Miles finally finds himself, has a boost of confidence and leaps off a building as Spider-man. The camera is then flipped to make it look like he's ascending instead of falling. The background music at that moment also slows down and speeds up once again when the camera switches angles. From the colors of the city in the background, to the animation, to the music, everything about the scene really fascinated me. For these reasons, I decided to reproduce an interactive version of that scene. I found a picture of that moment and cut Miles out of it to then animate him on top of the background. I then programmed some audio visualizers that react to the music to add some more visual flare. Another interactive element I added is Annyang, which allows the user to change the music track with their voice. My goal with all this was to mainly recreate the scene in my own way and make the users experience the great music from the movie as well as exploring the different ways I could use the new things we learned these past semesters. (Annyyang, the DOM, p5 Sound, JSON).

The challenge in this project were the audio visualizers. I found many videos and tutorials online which helped me with them but they weren't exactly what I wanted so I had to come up with a few things myself. Another challenge was playing the sounds and allowing the user to switch between them. The JSON file I created for the songs made playing them a bit more difficult. Overall, I’m satisfied because I got to use many of the notions I learned this past year.
